Document Failover Lambda for Active/Passive deployments (#29789)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/guides/high-availability/deploy-aws-route53-failover-lambda.adoc

<#import "/templates/guide.adoc" as tmpl>
<#import "/templates/links.adoc" as links>

<@tmpl.guide
title="Deploy an AWS Route 53 Failover Lambda"
summary="Building block for loadbalancer resilience"
tileVisible="false" >

> After a Primary cluster has failed over to a Backup cluster due to a health check failure, the Primary must only serve requests
> again after the SRE team synchronized the two sites first as outlined in the <@links.ha id="operate-switch-back" /> {section}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a Primary cluster has failed over to a Backup cluster due to a health check failure, the Primary must only serve requests
again after the SRE team has synchronized the two sites first as outlined in the <@links.ha id="operate-switch-back" /> {section}.
```

If the Primary site would be marked as healthy by the Route 53 Health Check before the sites are synchronized, the Primary Site would start serving requests with outdated session and realm data.

> This {section} shows how an automatic fallback to a not-yet synchronized Primary site can be prevented with the help of AWS CloudWatch, SNS and Lambda.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This {section} shows how an automatic fallback to a not-yet synchronized Primary site can be prevented with the help of AWS CloudWatch, SNS, and Lambda.
```

== Architecture

In the event of a Primary cluster failure, an https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/AlarmThatSendsEmail.html[AWS CloudWatch]
alarm sends a message to an https://aws.amazon.com/sns[AWS SNS] topic, which then triggers an https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/[AWS Lambda] function.
The Lambda function updates the Route53 health check of the Primary cluster so that it points to a non-existent path

> `/lb-check-failed-over`, thus ensuring that it's not possible for the Primary to be marked as healthy until the path is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`/lb-check-failed-over`, thus ensuring that it is impossible for the Primary to be marked as healthy until the path is
```
